---
layout: post
title: Visualizing Covid-19 Deaths of the Top-20 worst-hit countries with Bokeh (Python)
comments: true

---

{% include top20_total_covid_deaths.html %}

### Post Overview:
In this post I'll be summarizing a data visualisation + web development project that I recently completed. The end product are a few timeline charts, built with the [Bokeh](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/index.html) Python library. The source code to retrieve, clean and visualize the data can be found [here](https://github.com/winsont1/covid-19_data_project).

___
### Motivation:
Covid-19 has spread rampantly through the world over the last few months. It is important to keep track of the changes over time, and I've created this visualisation as a first step.
This is only one of many lenses through which one may view the spread of the coronavirus.

This graph below shows the daily deaths (rate of change) of the Top 20 countries.
{% include top20_daily_covid_deaths.html %}

I was also curious to look at the individual graphs of the US and Australia from when the first Covid-19 death took place.
{% include total_Australia_deaths.html %}
{% include total_US_deaths.html %}

___
### Data:
The data used to create the graphs is from the [Johns Hopkins CSSE COVID-19 Data Repository](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19)

### Next steps:
I'd like to run the application in an AWS instance or Heroku app. Each time the page is refreshed, the app will call the python script which retrieves the data from the John Hopkins repo again. This would be alright because the csv file is small in size, but alternatively I could create a database on the instance which I could then update on a regular basis.

### Afterthoughts:
I'm happy with how this project turned out thus far. I got to practice using the Python Bokeh library, and I feel that the information is a starting point for anybody looking to first understand the large picture of the current Covid-19 epidemic.
I look forward to any thoughts or suggestions to improve the visualisations and analysis further.
